Hi there. If you are here, it is probably because you have come to the conclusion that our political system is no longer “fixable” by ordinary means and that some sort of deep structural changes need to be made. If you still cling to the hope that we can solve things through ordinary political means (like if we just elect the right candidate), you probably won’t be interested in what follows.
If you are prepared to think differently, then read on . . .
As I look at the incredible cluster f--k that our governance systems have become, I don’t see any chance of things just muddling through under the status quo. Our world is absurdly fragile along a dozen dimensions and is getting more fragile every day. “Holding our noses” and hoping for the best is not going to cut it. This thing is way off the rails and, frankly, the situation is getting alarming. Like end of the world alarming. I think it is important to face reality squarely and accept that, however difficult, we are going to have to seriously upgrade the political operating system of our country. And soon.
Before, I get into what I think are the only viable approaches, I want to check off what will not work. After all, I’m going to be suggesting something that will sound very different and novel. Before we go there, we should take the time to make sure that there isn’t an easier path.
Fortunately, I think we can make this quick because I believe that nothing that worked in the past is going to work now. Armed revolution? I admire your passion, but, let’s be realistic — it has been centuries since that was a viable challenge. A grassroots movement behind a protest candidate? Between an utterly jacked election/electoral system and a hopelessly corrupt media, this is a waste of time. Protests in the streets? This worked in the 60’s and 70’s — but between militarized police, ubiquitous propaganda and selective co-optation, it has been rendered ineffective.
The reason that all of our old tools and techniques have been rendered ineffective is because of the long, hard work of something I call “the money power”. The money power is a set of both tacit and complicit alliances among people who have money and people who have power. This money power is absolutely masterful at turning power into money and money into power. Back and forth, back and forth in a mutually reinforcing cycle.
Its interests are simple: increase its ability to control, and therefore extract value from, the system. This simple, enduring, interest has given it a long intent that almost amounts to a force of nature. For centuries, generations have turned our governance institutions into a game of money power. And, as we can see today, this is a now game that they own.
Sure, there have been periodic shifts and changes to the system over the years. We’ve had many outbreaks of agency and positive change. But the money power has always taken the long view. To it, anything that can meaningfully change the system is merely a bug needing to be patched. And given enough time, it has always figured out a way to patch those bugs.
The money power is patient and, today, it controls most of the system. It owns the party machinery. It owns the think tanks and academic pundits. It owns the media. It is Goliath and, even when it can’t defeat us outright, it knows that it can outlast us.
Even if we somehow managed to pull off a Constitutional Amendment to “undo Citizens United,” the ink wouldn’t be dry before it would begin re-establishing control. Even if we somehow managed to launch a grassroots insurgency at the local level, it wouldn’t be long before the money power would adapt and reassert its control.
So, what hope have we?
Fortunately, the money power has repeatedly been shown to have one major weakness that it has not yet reliably patched: it is slow to react to technical innovation. This seems to be particularly true with technical innovation that undermines and disrupts the power structures that it relies on for control — like say the media and the electoral system. Thus, if we can design and implement a technology-based initiative that radically changes the balance of power around both media and elections, we might catch the money power off balance and have window of opportunity.
But remember, this is David and Goliath stuff. David didn’t go toe-to-toe with Goliath. Neither can we. We are likely to get one shot at this. It needs to fly straight. And if it lands, it needs to be terminal. It needs to be the kind of shot that so radically changes the game that the money power is eliminated from the game completely.
At the same time, if we are going to take this seriously, we are going to need to be thoughtful about the risks. Any upgrade to a political operating system is kind of a big deal and we are talking about a major upgrade. Checking the service records, our last major upgrade was back in 1776. Remember, this took a revolutionary war and a constitutional convention to get it installed.
In fact, it seems like making a change to a political operating system is always connected with an economic crisis or massive social unrest (or both). This is bad news since people tend to make bad decisions under crisis and often this results in violent conflict of some sort. Even a our minor updates in the past involved the Civil War or World War II. Those were bad. These days a major war (like between the US and China or Russia) would be a serious fucking problem. I think we’d like to avoid that.
Yet, doing nothing is likely to be much worse. So our challenge is to find an approach that will simultaneously unseat the money power, re-establish effective governance (adequate to deal with our many challenges) and do so without pushing us into crisis.
Over the past decade, I’ve uncovered what I think are two somewhat related paths that seem to fit the bill. Today, I’ll discuss the least radical.
It involves designing and implementing a new form of “governance platform” that so dramatically changes the nature of what we mean by governance as to render the existing tools of control obsolete; and that so effectively uses new media (both virtually and in real life) that it can win a critical mass of elections in 2020 without needing to spend a dime on traditional media. Ready to dig in?
source: https://medium.com/working-for-change/we-can-restore-democracy-by-disrupting-politics-here-is-how-c9d514a8c194#.q6u9b3x84
