I have discussed with you before how the heart of my generation got broken in politics. The pain of the assassinations of Martin Luther King, John and Robert Kennedy does not really lessen after fifty years. Their vision and dreams of a world free of racial and class strife may seem distant and naive, but we cling to them still. Bobby Kennedy said, “There are those who look at things the way they are, and ask why… I dream of things that never were, and ask why not.” Can you imagine any politician in 2015 saying such a thing? I suppose in talking to you I realize that you distrust idealism — deeply. Look at the picture above of Kennedy campaigning in Watts in 1968, a couple of weeks before he was killed. Look at the hope and joy in the eyes of the kids. That’s what you and I are missing. How do we ever get that back?
I guess we have to start with the question, “why did idealism die?” For my generation — the Boomers — it died from multiple gunshot wounds to the leaders we had invested with our hopes. It’s really that simple. After Bobby Kennedy was killed we retreated into art, drugs, work. Nixon became President at the height of the counter-culture. How much more cynical could you get? The corruption of Nixon was followed by the embrace of Neoliberalism by Carter, Reagan, Clinton and Bush. The adaption of deregulation, privatization, austerity, free trade and deep reductions in government spending were embraced by Democrats and Republicans alike. Even though Obama’s election campaign of 2008 in the midst of the Great Recession seemed to reignite some of our 1960's idealism, we didn’t understand that neoliberal orthodoxy was so ensconced in the establishment that Obama could only tinker at the margins. The appontment of Larry Summers, Tim Geithner, Robert Gates and Hillary Clinton at the outset of his administration demonstrated that the young Obama was really a captive to the Establishment. And so our idealism ebbed away.
But what about your generation? How did you get so cynical? This is a tough one. I’m not sure you really have ever had any political heroes and it’s clear from a recent Harvard Institute of Politics survey of Millennials, that you have lost trust in government.
More than half of respondents in the survey, released Tuesday morning by Harvard University’s Institute of Politics, said they think elected officials don’t share their priorities, and almost two-thirds said elected officials seem motivated by selfish reasons.
So here is the first difference between boomers and millennials. In 1967, this level of discontent with elected officials drove my generation into the streets in an intense embrace of political participation. But your discontent seems to do just the opposite as 75% of participating 18–29 year olds (in the Harvard survey) didn’t describe themselves as being “politically active”.
Here may be why the Trump campaign seems so important to our understanding of you mood of distanced irony. One of my students wrote to me describing the whole Trump campaign as a continuation of Donald’s reality show career. All of the drama and outrage is just as faked and Fox News plays their part obediently. Only the other Republican candidates seemed confused as to what their part in the show is. As Tod VanDerWerff recently wrote about Trump’s reality TV skills in Vox:
On television, never look for the person who’s playing the game best. Look for the person who’s realized the rules are only a suggestion. That’s the person the audience wants to watch — and that’s the person who just might win.
Trump himself acknowledged the power of “The Show”, saying in a 1990 Playboy Magazine interview that his plane and other luxury accouterments were merely “props for the show,” and that “The show is Trump and it has sold out performances everywhere.” But the show also contributes to your generation’s cynicism about politics. Certainly one cannot watch a show like House of Cards and come away thinking that politicians are selfless public servants. And even movie blockbusters like The Hunger Games reinforce our collective belief that politicians rule for the 1% and the rest of us fight for the scraps.
source: https://medium.com/writing-politics/why-politics-matters-54e4bd5dc386#.x9ifw1xhj
