Earlier this week, President Obama came out with a strong statement in favor of protecting net neutrality. Unsurprisingly, the collective internet, myself included, largely applauded the move. And for good reason: it’s the right thing to say and do. And it’s great that the most powerful person in the United States, and arguably the world, is behind the movement now.

Of course, it’s not that simple.

The reality is that the President should have made this statement years ago. Instead, he made the statement as a lame duck with nothing left to lose, having just seen his party served a big slice of ‘fuck you’ pie by the voting public in the elections last week. The President needed an easy win to try to secure some sort of legacy before he rides off into the sunset of million dollar speaking gigs. He grabbed the lowest hanging fruit.

Coming out in favor of net neutrality is pretty much the easiest high ground one can grab. The President knows that his Republican counterparts will largely take the unpopular position defending the business interests of the telco companies under the guise of free market weasel-speak.

The only slight friction for the President here is that his strong stance puts Tom Wheeler, the FCC chairman that he appointed, in a tough spot. It’s a lose-lose for Wheeler. If he supports the President’s position, he’s a White House stooge. If he opposes it, he’s the fall guy. And it sure looks like he’s getting ready to oppose it…

But the President had to know this as well. I mean, he appointed a former telco lobbyist to the position of FCC chairman. People were outraged about this for about five minutes. Now we see why this was such a dumbfoundingly bad idea. I don’t care how much money Wheeler raised for the President, it’s a bad idea to appoint the most biased person possible to such a position of power.

Oh but wait, Comcast is actually in support of the President’s position! Or at least, so reads their Jedi-mindfuck post. They’re totally seeing eye-to-eye with President Obama! …Except for one little itty bitty thing. An itty bitty thing that happens to be the only thing that will ultimately matter.

Pay no attention to that though! We can totally trust Comcast and the other jackals to do the right thing when it comes to their customers. I mean, just look at their fine history of customer service. Comcast fights for the users. Now hand them that complete monopoly and let them prove it.

Here’s what’s really going to happen: nothing. In spite of the President’s strong stance, nothing is going to change. We’ll get some weak net neutrality compromise that leaves the door slightly open for Comcast and the like to screw us in the end through some loophole.

This should be so simple. It should be simple for all the reasons the President laid out in his statement. Unfortunately, his statement is part of the problem. It turns what should be a clear rights issue for the continued betterment of mankind into a political one. It’s yet another chess maneuver when we really shouldn’t be playing a game with something so important.

source: https://500ish.com/politics-is-why-we-cant-have-nice-things-like-the-internet-1c704a7534f5#.5b7f4z1go
