No one loves public bathrooms. Their reputation isn’t great: dirty, smelly, slippery. Most of us try to avoid them, and if that’s not possible, we attempt to get in and out quickly without touching anything.

So, it’s odd that some Americans have worked so hard to defend this unpleasant bit of public real estate. But in more than a dozen states, legislatures are taking up the question of who is allowed into such sacred spaces.

This year, North Carolina became the first state to pass a law that required people to use segregated bathrooms based on the sex written on their birth certificate. The backlash began right away. PayPal canceled plans to build an operations center in the state, which would have created 400 jobs. Bruce Springsteen and Ringo Starr cancelled performances. The NBA said if the law remained intact, it would move next year’s All-Star game from Charlotte.

All over who can pee where.

“It’s a fraught environment,” Harvey Molotch, NYU professor of social and cultural analysis and editor of Toilet: Public Restrooms and the Politics of Sharing. “People are conducting extremely private acts in a public space.”

But of course, bodily functions have very little to do with the furor in North Carolina. Like so many issues on the extreme (and loud) political fringes, this one is about fear. “The bathroom is a place where we’re all vulnerable,” Ann Friedman wrote in New York. “We are, quite literally, caught with our pants around our ankles.”

Fear, specifically fear of the “other” invading our space when we’re at our most vulnerable, is an old and well-documented emotion. Public restrooms have remained for decades at the center of battles over class, gender, race, physical disability, and sexual orientation.

Jim Crow laws allowed “Whites Only” restrooms to exist in the South until the Civil Rights Act was passed in 1964. And it wasn’t until 1990’s Americans with Disabilities Act that public bathrooms had to accommodate those with physical disabilities.

But bathroom battles over gender and sexuality have aroused emotions for decades.

“Restrooms are among the few remaining sex-segregated spaces in the American landscape,” write architecture professors Kathryn H. Anthony and Meghan Dufresne, “and they remain among the more tangible relics of gender discrimination.”

source: https://timeline.com/the-history-of-potty-politics-transgender-bathroom-use-is-just-the-latest-version-817587a733a7#.zaiatrxj2
